>> Scott Moss: Let's try to get the
session, if there is no session, we will,
okay, can you just go there?
Thank you, there's no session,
we will turn null,
so we can say session equals, wait,
make this async get session like this,
if not a session,
this person is not logged in,
there is no person here.
If there is a session, we can try to get
the user by the database, no worries,
if you don't have any experience with
databases or anything like that,
it's super easy, I'm using something
called drizzle for the ORM (Object-relational mapping).
It's pretty simple, so in this case we're
just going to do a select query from
the users table where the user's ID
equals whatever the session's user ID is,
so you don't have to know that part,
but it's trying to mix it up for you.
Const user equals await db,
select from import users,
I guess I already have something called
users, I'll call this results,
there we go, and then where.
There's a lot of ways you can do
the where stuff in Drizzle, but
I'm gonna use this helper method
called eq, which stands for equals, so
I can say equals,
I want the users table id property.
If that equals whatever
the session.userId property is,
then that's the match that I want,
this always returns an array,
there's a match,
never returns the single one.
So in this case I just return
the first thing in the array or
if it's not there, null.
We'll log this error if there's an error
and then from there just return null,
so that is us getting the user by email,
so now if we do that,
if we go back to Man, I don't want to
hit save here, like what did I change?
I'm not gonna hit save there,
I don't know what's going on with that,
if we go back to this auth this
getUserByEmail should now work,
let me just get rid of the argument
that I was passing games.
We don't actually need that, and
let's see if we can actually sign in or
sign up now, so let's try that.
Yeah, I fixed that already,
or did I not, I guess not,
let me see, users,
why did it import it twice?
That's weird, there we go,
okay, all right,
sign up, I'll just say
admin@test.com password is admin,
Admin Admin Admin,
try to sign in says nah,
[LAUGH] that's actually really funny,
let's see why it said that.
So here if existing user,
did I use that one already,
I don't think I use that one, let's see,
user@app.com adminadmin, adminadmin,
okay, our shit's broke, let's fix it,
so getUserByEmail is returning a match.
So let's see what that is,
log that on the server,
admin@demo.com, adminadmin, adminadmin,
and we get back this,
I already have a session in here or
something.
See getUserByEmail,
Users by, you know what,
I just had a brain fart,
this is get user by email,
not get the current user in the session,
yeah, I don't know why I just did that?
Well, that's good,
we can just rename this function,
getCurrentUser, that's getCurrentUser,
I'm like,
why is that doing that, okay,
and then getUserByEmail,
let's just make that, sorry about that,
get the user by email?
This one does take an email so
can do this and
then do a try catch user would be
await db, you actually do db,
I'll need the async here db.users,
that should work.
db.query.users.findFirst and
then where equals users.id or
I'm sorry, users.email
equals this email,
so you can do that and
then return user, return null,
there you go.
Little quick getUserByEmail,
which makes a lot more sense.
And then now I can take this,
go here, add my email,
which in this case would
be data.email like that,
and then this case right here,
same thing, data.email, okay,
I'll try that again now,
User1@app.com, adminadmin, adminadmin.
There we go,
I am now signed into the dashboard,
I know I just went really fast, so
I'll push this up if you
are looking to catch up,
and I'll just leave this here for
one second.
But before I move on, I think a really
good convention is to like put your
stuff in folders that describe
the environment in which they run in, so
like for me I have an actions folder.
So I know that everything in here
is going to be a server action, and
I have this file called dal that tells me
that these are not server actions, right,
you could also name your
functions that way too.
So all your actions might have
the name action in it, so
you might have like sign in action
sign up action, so you just know that
this is an action, it has access to
the request or something like that.
Or put it in an object where
you have an actions object or
something like that, just do it in a way,
create your own conventions around
it because it can get confusing,
I get confused by it all the time, as you
just saw, so, yeah, it takes a minute.
>> Speaker 2: Is it fair to
say that server actions or
functions are basically just Node code
that's exposed by Next.js over HTTP,
whereas your data layer type
stuff is just native Node code?
>> Scott Moss: Yep, native Node
code that never leaves the server,
whereas the server action is exposed
over HTTP, yep, that's the simplest
solution I've ever heard someone describe
it as, so, yeah, pretty good, pretty much.
>> Speaker 3: Another
organization question.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: Your actions need
to be in the app directory?
>> Scott Moss: No.
>> Speaker 3: Okay.
>> Scott Moss: The only thing,
>> Speaker 3: That's just the route stuff.
>> Scott Moss: Yes, just for routes.
>> Speaker 3: Yeah,
I won't ask that anymore [LAUGH].
>> Scott Moss: [LAUGH] Yeah,
that was good, that's a good question.
>> Speaker 3: Triple checking.
>> Scott Moss: Only routes and
API stuff, pages and API stuff,
nothing else has to be
in the app directory.
You can put all that shit down here and
like, literally until like two or
three weeks ago, I would have just
put all this stuff down here, and
I don't know, I just got bored, I guess.
I just started putting here, so
that's where it is, there's no wrong or
right answer.
>> Speaker 3: I know a lot of folders.
For instance, if you wanted to like make
a folder that says called server and
then all the server stuff lived in it.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, that's a great, great
convention, all the server stuff is in
here, put it all in there, yeah,
that works totally fine, yeah, wait,
hold on, I think Next JS actually
has a server folder convention.
I've never made a custom server with
Next.js, so I don't know, gotcha,
they actually might.
>> Speaker 3: You may not
want to call it that exactly.
[LAUGH]
>> Scott Moss: Then let me see.
>> Scott Moss: Is it called the server,
although they have a server.ts file, yeah,
so you could be careful, probably?
>> Speaker 3: Fine with directory.
>> Scott Moss: Right, so
that's a thing, I've never used that,
I hope I never have to,
[LAUGH] any questions?
>> Speaker 2: I guess one more,
this might just be my lack of
knowledge on the Node side,
but is it, so
when you're doing like a getSession,
you're, yeah,
maybe pulling it up would be good,
so you're looking at cookies, right.
And so is it,
when that function is called,
it's always kind of assumed
that it's being called
within the context of an active
like HTTP request.
So.
>> Scott Moss: Yep.
>> Speaker 2: That's why you can
be confident that when you're
calling that function,
it's always in the right user context and
you're getting the right cookie
associated with a specific user,
you don't have to like
pass a user ID into this.
>> Scott Moss: Right, it's literally
reading the headers that came in from
the request and if you tried to
use this outside of the context,
you would get an error.
So it either worked because you
use it in the right place or
it errored because you didn't
use it in the right place,
it will literally break as soon as you try
to do this, nope, that doesn't work here.
>> Speaker 2: And the only config you
have to do, or not even config, but
just structure.
You just have to make sure you're calling
it within one of those server components.
And that's good.
>> Scott Moss: Yep, right, so far I showed
you how to use this stuff in a server
action, now I'm gonna show you how to use
this stuff in a server component, yeah,
react should have been
like this from day one.
Honestly, it really should, and also I
want you to know like everything I'm
showing you now, I would say 80% of people
that use Next.js don't know it like this
or know it this well or
even understand it.
So to me this is like fundamentals,
but it's also pretty advanced,
so you guys are ahead of
the game in my opinion,
I have engineers that I work with that
I'm still trying to explain this to.
And I don't think that it's hard,
I think it's just very different,
it's very different because
once I understand it,
I actually prefer this over making
API routes and TRPC, all this stuff.
I was just like, if I could just make a
function and export it, and it was just on
me to know when I'm supposed to use that
function, I'd rather do that than learn
these different libraries and these
configurations, and I don't wanna do that.
>> Speaker 4: Quick question.
>> Scott Moss: Yes.
>> Speaker 4: So is there a way to have
an open API exposure of APIs generated by
Next.js if you need to expose
those APIs in a standard way?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, we're gonna get to
that, we're gonna make a developer API for
our product so
you can see how to expose that, and yes,
you can use open API for that.
>> Speaker 4: Thank you, that's awesome.
>> Speaker 2: And then one,
one kind of more follow up question
to that is like, there's nothing saying or
built into like Next that
prevents me from calling
the sign in function just
like from Postman, right.
>> Scott Moss: You wouldn't know the route
for it, so you wouldn't know how to,
it doesn't have a route associated for it
until it's executed, if that makes sense,
you wouldn't know what route to
type in a Postman to call it.
>> Speaker 2: Okay, I thought in
the network tab, when we made the call,
it just said like, /sign.
>> Scott Moss: So
that was just like typical HTML5,
if you make any action on a form,
it just does a post request to
the page that you're on,
that's just how form actions work.
>> Speaker 2: Right.
Because it's a form.
It's a HTML5 form.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Okay,.
>> Scott Moss: So it just did that, but if
you use a server action outside of a form,
which you can and we will,
then you're not going to know,
then you're not gonna know, it's just
like, I don't know what URL that is.
Next.js is gonna make one, so
you wouldn't know what it is, yeah.
>> Speaker 3: That's almost a layer
of security in and of itself.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, it is, yeah.